Anyone who is applying have questions about Haverford?

What are some highlights of the math program?
It's very rigorous and the teaching is phenomenal. It's reputed to be one of Haverford's stronger departments.


How is the German studies department? Does it tend to have smaller classes? What about the classics department?

What's your favorite and least favorite part about Haverford?

Any tips for an interview? Mine's tomorrow! I know the general things-- is there anything Haverford interviewers generally focus on?

Do you think the Honor Code is generally successful at preventing cheating?

Does alcohol play a big role in the social scene? (I've gotten two kind of different answers on this question, so I'm curious for another perspective!)

I would really appreciate any comments on any of these questions! :)

I don't know enough about the German department but I know Classics majors and they love the department.

Favorite: rigorous classes, Honor Code definitely attracts genuinely good people

Least Favorite: lots of group think on political issues (my assumption is that you will get this at any of these schools)

For your interview make sure you know a lot about the Honor Code, it really is a big thing at Haverford.

I think the Honor Code is generally successful at preventing cheating, although of course there are exceptions. It's really nice to be able to self schedule and self proctor finals and be trusted by your professors.

The majority of Haverford students drink at least occasionally, but there are a lot of students who don't. There are tons of opportunities to have fun without alcohol (Fords Against Boredom for example). The alcohol scene is there if you want it and easy to escape if you don't. A great thing about parties is that anyone is welcome, they aren't exclusive.

Feel free to pm me if you want!



How is the sports culture? With over half of the student body playing a varsity sport, are those who do not effected socially?

You answered below that your least favorite thing about haverford is the abundance of group talk on politics. Could you elaborate on why that is your least favorite thing? From reading about haverford it seems that the school focuses on fostering an environment that is welcome of civil debate. Is that not true?

How is the food?

How useful is the "tri-consortium"? Do a lot of students take courses at the other colleges?

How are the dorms/living situations? Is the student housing split on campus by year of study?

What majors are most common? And do you think that affects the student life at the school?

Do you go to the meetings where the student body amends the honor code (I forget the name of the meeting)? And if so, how are they?

What would you want to tell a prospective applicant that you haven't gotten to yet?

Thank you for your time!


About a third of students participate in varsity sports, maybe slightly more. It isn't half, although it might get there when you include club. A lot of athletes hang out together and with their teams, but many do have non-athlete friends, especially ones they've made from their customs groups (Haverford's unique first year orientation). Many of the parties are held by sports teams, but they are inclusive.

Haverford does foster an environment that is open to civil debate. That said, most students are on the left and there is a tiny minority that can be loud and disrespectful. You will get this at any of these types of colleges and it's probably not as bad at Haverford as it is at other places.

Food is okay, there's one dining hall and then the Coop which is a nicer restaurant type place. You can also go to Bryn Mawr easily for food and a lot of people enjoy doing that.

The Tri-Co is great. There is a ton of cross-registration with Bryn Mawr, a lot of departments like econ sync their schedules up and some departments are housed at only one of the two schools (like religion and music at Haverford). It's less than a 10 minute bus ride to Bryn Mawr and the majority of students take Bryn Mawr classes. Swarthmore is farther so not nearly as many students take classes but it is completely doable. Penn is also doable.

The housing is great. All first years are in first year dorms with a couple of upperclassmen who live with them and act as mentors (no RAs). Most rooms are singles and if you want a single you will get one. After your first year, housing isn't split by year.

Most common majors are econ, poly sci, psych, english and bio. I think Haverford has a pretty good mix of majors. It's similar to most peer schools, maybe slightly more science kids but a good balance.

I do attend Plenary meetings where the Honor Code is ratified. They are once a semester. It's really wonderful that Haverford gives the students so much opportunity for self-governance.

I would tell a prospective student that Haverford is a very special place. Rigorous academics but also genuinely nice people. One thing I hadn't thought much about coming in was the freshman Customs program. Go look more on the website about it if you'd like. It's very unique what Haverford does to make freshmen bond together.

Hope this helped! PM me if you have more questions.


Excellent. The medical school acceptance rate is 89%.


Current high school junior here. When you applied, did you feel that the emphasis was more so on standardized tests and gpa or on extracurricular? Also, do the majority of people come out of high school with a perfect 4.0 and test scores? Sorry for the late response.



I think Haverford is a little more likely to take people with lower scores and reject people with top scores if they feel that they don’t fit in with Haverford’s unique culture. I’ve also heard that Haverford emphasizes grades over test scores more than other similar schools. I think the majority of people have top grades and very strong test scores, but I wouldn’t say that the average person has perfect scores. It’s also hard to know exactly since the culture at Haverford isn’t super conducive to comparing your high school grades and scores to other people. What other schools are you looking at? Are you thinking ED or RD?



I have a while to decide so I’m not really sure on whether or not I am going to apply ED or RD. I’m also looking into Franklin and Marshall as well as Gettysburg. I’m still not sure if I’d consider Haverford a reach, but it’s definitely going to be one of, if not the hardest school I’m going to apply to.


Thanks for the quick response

How is the geology program? And how much of a shock is the PA mainline as an environment?

