social scene at haverford

There are inherently fewer people to socialize with at a small school than a big one, but it’s not like anyone would be friends with 1400+ people that to go the school— so there’s still plenty of room for discovering people. The bico consortium does mean that there’s more females than males, it also widens your network and can make either school feel a bit bigger. Traveling between campuses is a regular thing for most people I know even if you’re only taking classes at Haverford (bryn mawr dinners hit the spot).

Yeahh we do b gettin lit you jus gotta find the ppl that match ur energy :) I def did (I was worried abt the same thing) n go out or hav a good time w my friends like every weekend

was it easy to find friends who like to go out? and is the female to male ratio an issue with bryn mawr lol

For me, yeah! I did a pre-customs program with the Chesick group on campus for FGLI students and I made most of my friends there :) customs as well as just getting to know people in your dorm will allow you to find people with your interests easily. As far as I can tell, the gender ratio isn’t significantly thrown off unless you’re actually on Bryn Mawr’s campus.

Yes, people party. The student-run alcohol policy (and social honor code somewhat) also creates a pretty non-toxic party scene

that sounds awesome

Yep, there is a party scene on campus. Admittedly it tends to be athlete-heavy, but you don’t have to be an athlete to go. Some common party spaces during the normal year are basements of certain dorms (Gummere, Lunt) and some of the apartments.

The Alcohol Policy helps reduce a lot of the worry around partying (though you should always be careful, ofc). Students monitor their own drinking and campus safety won’t intervene unless you’re causing a significant disturbance or are in danger.

Right now, though, we have COVID safety guidelines which say no parties, but there is absolutely the expectation it will loosen up, especially by next Fall.

What's the social scene like for those who don't like to party? :)

policies around substance use are v lax on campus so it's not a stigmatized topic at all, people are very open about substance use if they do it and you'll have no problem. the party scene itself gets a little stale after about a year since it's the same people at every party but you can always go off campus if you really want to

if you’re into partying: i’d recommend living in gummere because u get to meet a lot of people just because of the way the building is structured (not apartments)
